GraphMoRE: Mitigating Topological Heterogeneity via Mixture of Riemannian Experts  Zihao Guo 1 , Qingyun Sun 1* , Haonan Yuan 1 , Xingcheng Fu 2 , Min Zhou 3 , Yisen Gao 4 , Jianxin Li 1  1 SKLCCSE, School of Computer Science and Engineering, Beihang University, China  2 Key Lab of Education Blockchain and Intelligent Technology, Ministry of Education, Guangxi Normal University, China  3 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd, China  4 Institute of Artificial Intelligence, Beihang University, China guozh@act.buaa.edu.cn,   { sunqy, yuanhn, gaoys, lijx } @buaa.edu.cn, fuxc@gxnu.edu.cn, zhoumin27@huawei.com  Abstract  Real-world graphs have inherently complex and diverse topo- logical patterns, known as topological heterogeneity. Most existing works learn graph representation in a single constant curvature space that is insufficient to match the complex geo- metric shapes, resulting in low-quality embeddings with high distortion. This also constitutes a critical challenge for graph foundation models, which are expected to uniformly handle a wide variety of diverse graph data. Recent studies have in- dicated that product manifold gains the possibility to address topological heterogeneity. However, the product manifold is still homogeneous, which is inadequate and inflexible for rep- resenting the mixed heterogeneous topology. In this paper, we propose a novel   Graph M ixture   o f   R iemannian   E xperts ( GraphMoRE ) framework to effectively tackle topological heterogeneity by personalized fine-grained topology geome- try pattern preservation. Specifically, to minimize the embed- ding distortion, we propose a topology-aware gating mecha- nism to select the optimal embedding space for each node. By fusing the outputs of diverse Riemannian experts with learned gating weights, we construct personalized mixed cur- vature spaces for nodes, effectively embedding the graph into a heterogeneous manifold with varying curvatures at different points. Furthermore, to fairly measure pairwise distances be- tween different embedding spaces, we present a concise and effective alignment strategy. Extensive experiments on real- world and synthetic datasets demonstrate that our method achieves superior performance with lower distortion, high- lighting its potential for modeling complex graphs with topo- logical heterogeneity, and providing a novel architectural per- spective for graph foundation models.  1   Introduction  Capturing the characteristics of structures with low distor- tion embeddings is critical to graph representation learn- ing, while how to effectively improve the expressive capac- ity to adapt to topological heterogeneity remains an unre- solved challenge. Particularly with the development of graph foundational models, there is an increasing necessity to uni- formly process graph data from a wide variety of types and domains, imposing higher demands on adaptive fea- ture extraction of complex structures. Most existing graph  * Corresponding author. Copyright © 2025, Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence (www.aaai.org). All rights reserved.  representation learning methods (Kipf and Welling 2017; Veliˇ ckovi´ c et al. 2018; Ying et al. 2021; Hou et al. 2024), including existing works on graph foundation models(Liu et al. 2023b; Sun et al. 2023; Zhao et al. 2024; Liu et al. 2023a; Mao et al. 2024), embed graphs into Euclidean space, which are not conducive to capture the complex topological structures (Bronstein et al. 2017; Nickel and Kiela 2017). In recent years, Riemannian representation learning has received wide attention due to the ability to naturally rep- resent different topological structures (Yang et al. 2024; Fu et al. 2024). However, real-world graphs always ex- hibit topological heterogeneity, meaning they are hybrids of substructures with different topological characteristics, each suited to be represented in different curvature spaces. Most of previous works (Liu, Nickel, and Kiela 2019; Chami et al. 2019; Bachmann, B´ ecigneul, and Ganea 2020; Zhang et al. 2021) exclusively consider a single constant curvature space, ignoring the problem of topological heterogeneity. Although some recent studies (Wang et al. 2021; Sun et al. 2022; Cho et al. 2023) attempt to construct a mixed-curvature space ( i.e. , product manifold) that incorporates multiple Rieman- nian manifolds with different curvatures, they globally learn the representations of all nodes. In other words, the prod- uct manifold is homogeneous(Di Giovanni, Luise, and Bron- stein 2022) with the globally uniform curvature for each point in space, which is inadequate and inflexible for rep- resenting the mixed heterogeneous topology. Considering the heterogeneity of topological patterns across different substructures of the graph, we aim to adap- tively embed structures with different topological patterns in corresponding optimal embedding space, rather than ap- plying the same curvature globally to the whole graph. To achieve automatic adaptation to heterogeneous topologies, there are two main issues need to be addressed. The first issue is about   topology pattern identification . The topolog- ical patterns of substructures in a graph are often not ex- plicitly expressed and vary with resolution, making it dif- ficult to directly divide the graph into subgraphs with dif- ferent topological patterns and process them separately. The second issue is about   optimal embedding space selection . The appropriate type of Riemannian space and the optimal curvature vary from different topological properties. More- over, the substructure of a graph is still complex and diffi- The Thirty-Ninth AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence (AAAI- 25)  11754

Method   Curvature Diversity Heterogeneous Manifold   Fine-grained  HGCN   ✗   ✗   ✗  κ -GCN   ✗   ✗   ✗  L-GCN   ✗   ✗   ✗  SELFMGNN   ✓   ✗   ✗  Q -GCN   ✗   ✓   ✗  κ HGCN   ✗   ✗   ✓  MofitRGC   ✓   ✓   ✗  GraphMoRE   ✓   ✓   ✓  Table 1: Comparison of GraphMoRE and relevant methods. cult to classify as a single type such as tree-like or cycle- like. Therefore, selecting the appropriate embedding space for different topological patterns also presents challenges. To address the first   topology pattern identification   issue, we approach it from the perspective of local topology char- acterization, transforming the problem of finding substruc- tures with different topological patterns into estimating the geometric properties around each node, thus providing a foundation for heterogeneity processing of the graph. To ad- dress the second   optimal embedding space selection   issue, we introduce Mixture-of-Experts (MoE) to model the com- plex geometric properties. In the MoE architecture, the ex- perts can naturally correspond to different curvature spaces and construct personalized mixed curvature spaces for dif- ferent nodes, while the gating module can adaptively route different nodes to the appropriate embedding space. To this end, we propose GraphMoRE, a Riemannian graph MoE to address the problem of topological hetero- geneity. Specifically, we first propose a topology-aware gat- ing mechanism, consisting of a multi-resolution local topol- ogy encoding module to estimate local geometric proper- ties and a gating network which assigns Riemannian ex- pert weights for nodes to route them to corresponding opti- mal embedding space. To achieve adaptive routing for nodes with different geometric properties, the gating network is guided by the goal of encouraging higher weights to be as- signed to curvature spaces with lower distortion. Addition- ally, to adapt to complex geometric properties, we design di- verse Riemannian experts considering the type of spaces and the degree of curving in space. The experts performs repre- sentation learning in differentiated curvature spaces to flexi- bly construct personalized mixed curvature spaces for nodes through expert weights. Note that, our method is equivalent to the graph is embedded into a heterogeneous manifold with different curvatures at each point. Therefore, we provide an alignment strategy to measure the pairwise distance between nodes in different embedding spaces. We compare Graph- MoRE with relevant methods in Table 1 and our method en- joys the advantage of learning fine-grained embeddings in heterogeneous manifold with diverse curvatures. Our con- tributions are as follows: • We propose analyzing topological heterogeneity from the perspective of local topology characterization, construct personalized embedding spaces for nodes, to minimize the distortion of heterogeneous topologies. • To the best of our knowledge, we are the first to intro- duce the MoE into Riemannian representation learning, providing a new perspective for the design of graph foun- dation models based on Riemannian geometry. • Extensive experiments demonstrate that our method out- performs advanced relevant methods, highlighting the potential of GraphMoRE on topological heterogeneity.  2   Related Work  2.1   Riemannian Graph Learning  Riemannian space has been introduced into graph repre- sentation learning and received wide attention (Peng et al. 2021; Yang et al. 2022). To address the limitation of single constant curvature spaces in topological heterogeneity,   Q - GCN (Xiong et al. 2022) introduces the pseudo-Riemannian manifold into GNNs.   κ HGCN (Yang et al. 2023) utilizes discrete curvature to improve message passing, alleviating inconsistency between local structure and global curvature. These works are orthogonal to ours. In this paper, we mainly focus on the works related to mixed curvature space, which is mainly designed for non-uniform   structured   data   (Gu   et   al.   2019;   Skopek, Ganea, and B´ ecigneul 2020). DyERNIE (Han et al. 2020), M 2 GNN (Wang et al. 2021) and AMCAD (Xu et al. 2022) respectively introduce product manifold into knowledge graph and retrieval system. SELFMGNN (Sun et al. 2022) proposes a mixed curvature graph contrastive learning, de- signs a hierarchical attention mechanism to fuse the rep- resentations of different curvature subspaces. FPS-T (Cho et al. 2023) develops the graph transformer to mixed curva- ture space. MofitRGC (Sun et al. 2024) introduces a diver- sified factor in the product manifold to provide flexibility. However, the product manifold proposed in most of these methods is still homogeneous. Although MofitRGC extends the original product manifold, its improvement is not in- tuitive and fundamental enough and is still insufficient to represent mixed heterogeneous topologies. The method pro- posed in this paper directly constructs personalized hetero- geneous manifold for different geometric properties.  2.2   Graph Mixture of Experts  Mixture of Experts (Jacobs et al. 1991; Shazeer et al. 2017) aims at training multiple experts with different skills, widely used in fields such as large language models. However, the exploration of MoE on graphs is still in the early stage. GraphDIVE (Hu et al. 2022) and G-Fame++ (Liu et al. 2023c) utilize MoE to learn diverse feature representations of graph, applying to imbalanced graph classification and fair graph representation learning. Considering the complex mixture of homophily and heterophily, GMoE (Wang et al. 2023) and Node-MOE (Han et al. 2024) respectively pro- pose using GNN with different hop numbers and different Laplacian filters as experts to enhance the ability to adapt to complex graph patterns. ToxExpert (Kim et al. 2023) points out that a single GNN model cannot learn molecules with different structure patterns well and proposes to train mul- tiple topology-specific expert models. GraphMETRO (Wu et al. 2024) addresses out-of-distribution shifts by using a 11755

gating module to predict shift types and experts to generate shift-invariant representations. Note that, the diversity of ex- perts and the design of the gating network are crucial. In this paper, we will mainly introduce how to design the compo- nents of MoE to mitigate the etopological heterogeneity.  3   Preliminary  3.1   Riemannian Manifold  Manifold.   A   manifold   is   a   generalization   of   high- dimensional surface, possessing the properties of Euclidean space locally. A Riemannian manifold is a smooth manifold coupled with a Riemannian metric   g . In the tangent space  T x M d   of a point   x   on a d-dimensional Riemannian mani- fold   M d , the Riemannian metric   g x   defines a positive defi- nite inner product   T x M d ×T x M d   →   R , which is used to de- fine the geometric properties and operations of the Rieman- nian manifold. The transformation of vector   v   between man- ifold   M d   and tangent space   T x M d   is performed through logarithmic mapping   log x ( v ) :   M d   → T x M d   and expo- nential mapping   exp x ( v ) :   T x M d   → M d   at point   x . In Riemannian space, GNNs generally map nodes to the tan- gent plane through   log 0 ( · )   for message passing and aggrega- tion, and then map nodes back to Riemannian space through  exp 0 ( · ) , where   0   is the reference point.  Constant Curvature Spaces.   Curvature is a geometric quantity that describes the degree of curving in space. In the Riemannian manifold, the sectional curvature   κ ( x )   at each point   x   is defined. For a manifold with equal sectional cur- vature at all points, it is defined as a constant curvature space  M d κ . According to the sign of curvature   κ , constant curva- ture spaces can be divided into three categories: spherical space ( κ >   0 ), hyperbolic space ( κ <   0 ), and Euclidean space ( κ   = 0 ), which are suitable for modeling data with different topologies respectively.  3.2   Problem Formulation  Notations.   A graph can be described as   G   =   ( A ,   X ) , where   A   ∈ { 0 ,   1 } N   × N   is the adjacency matrix,   X   ∈   R N   × d  is the node feature matrix,   N   denotes the number of nodes and   d   denotes the dimension of node feature. Let   V ,   E   be the set of nodes and edges in the graph, respectively.  Problem Definition.   We primarily consider the problem of Riemannian representation learning on the graph with topological heterogeneity. Given a graph   G   = ( A ,   X ) , in which various topological patterns exist. Our goal is to learn an encoding function   ψ   :   V → P , which captures the geo- metric properties around node   v   and adaptively maps node  v   to the personalized embedding space   P , where   P   is com- posed of diverse curvature spaces. Unlike existing work on mixed curvature, we embed different topological patterns into the corresponding optimal curvature spaces to maxi- mize the preservation of the graph structure, rather than em- bedding all nodes into the same curvature space.  4   GraphMoRE  In this section, we present GraphMoRE, a novel Graph Mix- ture of Riemannian Experts framework to address the prob- lem of topological heterogeneity. The key insight is that we decompose topological heterogeneity from the perspec- tive of local topology characterization. In brief, we first in- troduce diverse Riemannian experts (Sec. 4.1) to provide a foundation for flexibly constructing diverse embedding spaces. Then, we design a topology-aware gating mecha- nism (Sec. 4.2) to capture geometric properties around nodes and construct personalized mixed curvature spaces for each node (Sec. 4.3). Overall framework is shown in Figure 1.  4.1   Diverse Riemannian Experts  To perform heterogeneity processing on different topolog- ical patterns, we aim to provide personalized embedding spaces. However, the substructures of the graph are still complex, such that a single constant curvature space is not sufficient to match their geometric shapes well. Therefore, we consider multiple Riemannian spaces with different cur- vatures to better model local topology. In our method, we de- sign each expert model as the Riemannian GNN in different curvature spaces. More importantly, we consider the diver- sity of Riemannian experts and provide personalized mixed curvature spaces through the gating network.  Riemannian GNN.   Before discussing further, we briefly introduce the operations of Riemannian expert with the backbone of the   κ -stereographic model. Benefit from the  κ -stereographic model provides a unified framework to de- scribe manifolds with positive, negative, and zero curvature, our Riemannian experts learn embeddings in the unified space   U κ . Specifically,   κ -stereographic model is a smooth manifold   M d κ   =   { x   ∈   R d   | − κ ∥ x ∥ 2   <   1 } . When   κ >   0 ,  M d κ   is the stereographic sphere model, while   M d κ   is the Poincar´ e ball model of radius   1 / √ − κ   when   κ <   0 . The message passing and aggregation of Riemannian GNN in the   κ -stereographic model can be formulated as:  ˆ h ( l +1)  u   = Agg    log κ  0    h ( l )  v   , v   ∈ N   ( u )    ,   (1)  h ( l +1)  u   = exp κ  0    Comb    h ( l )  u   ,   ˆ h ( l +1)  u    ,   (2) where   log κ  0   and   exp κ  0   are   exponential   and   logarithmic maps (Bachmann, B´ ecigneul, and Ganea 2020),   N   ( · )   de- notes the neighbor nodes,   Agg( · )   and   Comb( · ,   · )   are neigh- bor aggregation and combination operators.  Diversity of Experts.   To enhance the ability to model complex topological patterns, we consider the diversity of Riemannian experts in terms of both the type of curva- ture spaces and the degree of curving in space. For the type of curvature spaces, we divide Riemannian experts into three categories, focusing on hyperbolic space   H , spheri- cal space   S , and Euclidean space   E   respectively, where Eu- clidean space is a special case of the   κ -stereographic model with zero curvature. Considering that Riemannian GNN only slightly adjusts the curvature within a relatively lim- ited range (Fu et al. 2021), the initial value of curvature is crucial, which means that even if the type of curvature space has been considered, it is still necessary to consider the de- gree of curving in space. Therefore, we assign differenti- ated values to each type of Riemannian experts to initialize 11756

Riemannian Embeddings  Topology Encoding  Gating Network  Expert Weights  Input Graph   Diverse Riemannian Experts  Topology - aware Gating Mechanism  Mixture and Alignment of Experts  Space Type  Local Topology  Characterization  Multi - resolution Sampling  Hyperbolic Space   Euclidean Space   Spherical Space  Expert   -  Expert   -  Expert   -  Expert   -  Expert   - Curving  Degree  Diversify  Node Node  …   …  …   …  …   …  …   …  Minimize  …   …  …   …  Pairwise Distance  Pairwise   Embedding   Distortion  Weight Alignment  Personalized Embedding Figure 1: The overall framework of   GraphMoRE . We first design diverse Rimannian experts in terms of both the type of curva- ture spaces and the degree of curving in space. Then we estimate the geometric properties around nodes from the perspective of local topology characterization, embed nodes into personalized mixed curvature spaces by fusing diverse Riemannian experts with the goal of minimizing embedding distortion. Finally, we measure pairwise distances through alignment strategy. their curvature. The diverse Riemannian experts are denoted as   E   =   { E H 1   ,   E H 2   , ...,   E E , ...,   E S K   } , each corresponding to a Riemannian GNN in different curvature spaces. Thus, we can flexibly construct personalized embedding spaces by fusing the representations of diverse Riemannian experts with the outputs of the gating network, providing the ability to model different topological patterns.  4.2   Topology-aware Gating Mechanism  As mentioned before, the topological patterns of substruc- tures are often not explicitly expressed. We consider ap- proaching it from the perspective of local topology char- acterization, transforming the problem into estimating the geometric properties around nodes. Specifically, we design a topology-aware gating mechanism, which includes multi- resolution local topology encoding and distortion guided gating network, to capture the geometric properties around nodes and route them to personalized embedding spaces.  Multi-resolution Local Topology Encoding.   To extract the characterization of the topology around nodes, we first consider local topology sampling centered on the nodes:  s v   = Sampler( v, r ) ,   (3) where   s v   represents the subgraph sampled around the node  v ,   Sampler( · ,   · )   denotes the sampling strategy that can be flexibly chosen,   r   denotes the scale of sampling. Consider- ing that the local geometric properties exhibit some varia- tion with changes in resolution, to obtain more abundant lo- cal topological characterizations, we further perform multi- resolution local topology sampling by Eq. (3) as follows:  S v   =   { Sampler( v, r ) , r   ∈ R} ,   (4) where   S v   represents the sampled local topology subgraphs and   R   denotes the scale set of sampling. Then, we introduce a GNN   ξ ( · )   designed for encoding the local topology, which embeds and pools the sampled local topology subgraphs   S v   , and concatenates them to obtain the local topology characterizations of node   v :  T   v   =   ∥   Pooling( ξ ( s ) , s   ∈ S v   ) ,   (5) where   ∥   denotes concatenation operation and   Pooling( · )   de- notes the pooling function.  Distortion Guided Gating Network.   After encoding the local topology of all nodes, we estimate the local geometric properties around the nodes and select the optimal embed- ding space for them. Specifically, the gating network   ϕ ( · )  receives the local topology characterizations   T   and outputs the weights of different Riemannian experts for each node:  W v   = Softmax( ϕ ( T   v   )) ,   (6) where   W v   =   { W ε  v   ,   ε   ∈   E }   is a weight vector, with each element representing the weight value of the corresponding Riemannian expert for node   v . The topology characteriza- tions of the sampled local topology subgraphs are similar for neighboring nodes, which ensures that the gating net- work assigns them nearly identical expert weights, enabling them to be embedded into similar embedding spaces. For specific topological patterns, the gating network is expected to assign higher weights to the appropriate Rie- mannian experts. For the example in Figure 1, the topol- ogy around node   u   is tree-like, so the output of the gat- ing network is more biased towards hyperbolic Rieman- nian experts with negative curvatures, and experts with more 11757

matching curvatures are assigned relatively higher weights. To enable the gating network to have such ability, we con- sider embedding distortion as it can measure the inconsis- tency between the embedding distance of Riemannian ex- perts and the graph distance. Specifically, for nodes in sub- structures with specific geometric properties, inappropriate expert weights cause these nodes to be embedded in mis- matched curvature spaces, resulting in higher distortion. The optimization objective of minimizing the embedding distor- tion can promote the gating network to assign appropriate expert weights for nodes, which can be formalized as:  L D   =   1  |V| 2  X  i,j ∈V     d ( i, j )  g ( i, j )   2  −   1   ,   (7) where   g ( i, j )   is the shortest path distance between node   i  and   j   on the graph,   d ( i, j )   is the distance between them in the Riemannian embedding space constructed in our method, which is related to the mixture and alignment of experts and will be described in detail in the next section.  4.3   Mixture and Alignment of Experts  To construct a personalized embedding space for each node, we consider fusing the output of Riemannian experts with the expert weights which are assigned based on the local ge- ometric properties, thus enabling heterogeneity processing of different nodes. The output of Riemannian experts is de- noted as   Z   =   { Z ε ,   ε   ∈   E } , and the embedding of node   v  can be formulated as:  Z v   =   ∥ ε ∈ E   W ε  v   ⊗ ε   Z v  ε ,   (8) where   Z v  ε   represents the embedding representation of node  v   in the curvature space of expert   ε ,   ⊗ ε   denotes the prod- uct operation defined on the manifold of expert   ε , that is,  w   ⊗ ε   x   = exp ε  0   ( w   log ε  0 ( x )) . After the mixture of Rieman- nian experts, each node is embedded into a personalized mixed curvature space, which is equivalent to the graph is embedded into a heterogeneous manifold with varying cur- vatures at different points, thereby maximizing the preserva- tion of mixed heterogeneous topological structures. Moreover, due to the different spaces in which nodes are embedded, directly calculating the pairwise distance be- tween nodes results in deviation. To achieve concise and effective embedding alignment, we consider integrating the expert weights of nodes   u   and   v   for each node pair   ( u, v ) :  W ( u,v )   = Softmax( W u   ·   W v   ) ,   (9) where   W ( u,v )   is the aligned expert weight. We remap node  u   and   v   through   W ( u,v )   to an aligned embedding space. The aligned embedding space is relatively advantageous for both when the original embedding spaces of two nodes are similar. For example, in Figure 1, the weights of nodes   u  and   v   are biased towards hyperbolic experts, and the aligned weight   W ( u,v )   can highlight experts which are important for both while reducing the weights of other experts. Otherwise, the aligned embedding space is neutral between the original embedding spaces of both. The embedding distance between nodes can be formulated as:  d 2 ( u, v ) =   X  ε ∈ E  W ε  ( u,v ) d 2  ε ( Z u  ε   ,   Z v  ε ) .   (10)  4.4   Optimization Objective  The overall optimization objective consists of the down- stream task objectives and minimization of embedding dis- tortion, which can be formulated as:  L   =   L task   +   λ L D   ,   (11) where   λ   is a trade-off hyperparameter. The overall process of our method is summarized in Algorithm 1.  4.5   Comlexity Analysis  The overall time complexity is   O ( |R||D|   +   |D s |   +   K |D| ) . Separately, the complexity of local topology sampling is  O ( |R||D| ) , and the complexity of the gating mechanism is  O ( |D s | ) , where   |D|   is the size of the input graph and   |D s |  is the size of the sampled subgraphs. The encoding process involves   K   experts with the complexity of   O ( K |D| ) . Algorithm 1: The overall training process of GraphMoRE  Input:   Graph   G ; Number of experts   K ; Initial curvature set  C ; Number of training epochs   T   .  Output:   Predicted result of the downstream task. Initialize Riemannian experts   E   with   C ; Sample local topology subgraphs   S   for nodes by Eq. (4);  for   t   = 1 ,   2 , ..., T   do for   expert   ε   in   E   do  Get the output   Z ε   of expert   ε   by Eq. (1) and (2);  end  //   Topology-aware   Gating   Mechanism  Calculate local topology characterizations   T   by Eq. (5); Get the expert weights   W   for each node by Eq. (6);  //   Mixture   and   Alignment   of   Experts  for   each node pair   ( u, v )   in   G   do  Get the aligned expert weights   W ( u,v )   by Eq. (9); Calculate embedding distance   d 2 ( u, v )   by Eq. (10);  end  //   Update   all   parameters  Update model parameters by minimizing   L   by Eq. (11);  end  5   Experiment  To evaluate GraphMoRE 1   proposed in this paper, we con- duct comprehensive experiments and further analyze the ef- fectiveness of GraphMoRE on topological heterogeneity.  5.1   Experimental Setup  Datasets.   We conduct experiments on a variety of real- world datasets, including citation networks (Cora (Sen et al. 2008), Citeseer (Kipf and Welling 2017), PubMed (Namata et al. 2012)), airline networks (Airport (Chami et al. 2019)) and co-purchase networks (Photo (Shchur et al. 2018)). In addition, we generate graphs with topological heterogeneity for further comparison. The statistics and topological het- erogeneity analysis are detailed in the Appendix.  1 https://github.com/RingBDStack/GraphMoRE. 11758

Method   Cora   Citeseer   Airport   PubMed   Photo  AUC   AP   AUC   AP   AUC   AP   AUC   AP   AUC   AP GCN   91.88±0.33   92.44±0.36   90.10±0.65   90.66±0.57   91.95±0.91   91.35±0.69   93.79±2.91   93.49±2.73   92.17±2.57   90.42±2.71 GAT   90.63±0.30   91.13±0.31   88.83±0.64   88.81±0.18   89.55±1.22   89.25±1.34   88.87±1.57   87.96±1.30   94.06±0.40   93.15±0.50 SAGE   89.29±0.59   90.03±0.69   86.93±0.53   88.47±0.69   89.04±0.76   85.44±1.36   89.97±0.40   90.76±0.31   92.87±2.28   91.28±2.51 HNN   90.85±0.44   89.88±0.49   95.27±0.48   95.41±0.52   92.63±0.42   92.96±0.21   93.04±0.19   92.06±0.14   92.77±0.31   90.12±0.32 HGCN   93.62±0.25   93.73±0.27   94.87±0.41   95.28±0.37   93.50±0.36   94.13±0.28   95.20±0.15   95.16±0.16   96.96±0.93   96.12±0.94  κ -GCN   93.81±1.95   94.97±1.55   96.76±1.20   97.39±0.88   93.87±0.34   93.18±0.23   97.17±0.12   97.05±0.13   97.29±0.09   96.72±0.12 LGCN   93.75±0.30   94.47±0.24   95.50±0.20   95.99±0.14   94.20±0.26   94.43±0.20   96.20±0.11   96.25±0.16   97.50±1.10   96.96±1.20  Q -GCN   93.66±0.17   92.96±0.12   94.41±0.25   93.93±0.15   94.99±0.33   94.49±0.21   95.21±0.05   95.14±0.11   97.33±0.04   96.53±0.06 MotifRGC   95.90±0.71   96.51±0.54   96.04±0.39   96.33±0.43   96.86±0.39   96.65±0.28   97.26±0.76   97.20±0.78   OOM  GraphMoRE   97.91±0.10   98.42±0.09   98.70±0.20   98.84±0.14   97.53±0.28   96.71±0.36   99.18±0.05   99.22±0.05   98.83±0.04   98.53±0.06  Table 2: AUC and AP (% ± standard deviation) of Link Prediction on real-world graph datasets. The best results are indicated in   bold   and the runner-ups are underlined. OOM denotes Out-of-Memory.  Method   Cora   Citeseer   Airport   PubMed   Photo  W-F1   M-F1   W-F1   M-F1   W-F1   M-F1   W-F1   M-F1   W-F1   M-F1 GCN   79.41±1.25   78.92±1.04   65.92±2.13   62.46±1.73   81.38±0.82   77.44±0.82   75.95±0.40   75.74±0.34   91.68±0.70   89.77±1.11 GAT   77.49±1.11   76.98±1.01   65.43±1.46   61.87±1.38   83.06±1.02   80.33±1.03   75.33±0.89   75.04±0.84   92.63±0.59   90.96±0.76 SAGE   77.47±0.71   76.61±0.87   64.03±1.11   60.24±1.56   84.07±2.19   81.27±2.17   73.97±0.90   73.90±0.87   88.09±1.56   85.25±1.90 HNN   58.98±0.52   57.15±0.70   59.52±0.51   57.38±0.68   70.71±1.47   54.49±1.81   69.56±0.71   68.85±0.49   90.90±0.42   89.34±0.53 HGCN   77.78±0.63   73.94±0.61   67.51±0.81   60.56±0.83   84.82±1.46   81.23±2.06   78.69±0.59   77.78±0.50   90.78±0.28   88.10±0.42  κ -GCN   78.67±1.00   78.01±0.73   63.88±0.69   60.28±0.60   87.40±1.64   84.33±2.08   77.31±1.71   76.37±1.54   92.31±0.45   90.52±0.76 LGCN   80.19±0.98   79.05±0.81   67.94±1.78   61.41±4.25   89.03±1.24   84.50±2.00   77.19±0.41   76.92±0.44   92.97±0.32   90.53±1.23  Q -GCN   75.97±0.97   74.03±0.96   68.89±1.70   62.68±1.48   89.66±0.67   85.46±0.86   80.61±0.81   79.55±0.91   91.85±0.47   90.30±0.63 MotifRGC   80.91±0.64   80.19±0.63   68.31±1.41   64.63±1.39   84.53±2.32   83.96±2.38   79.13±1.37   77.71±1.34   OOM  GraphMoRE GCN   80.51±0.91   79.44±0.77   69.73±0.70   65.98±0.67   91.75±0.93   91.49±0.98   77.16±0.61   76.50±0.76   93.18±0.31   91.86±0.34  GraphMoRE GAT   79.81±0.71   78.53±0.85   68.59±1.64   64.70±1.74   91.06±1.52   90.50±1.78   77.30±0.74   76.46±0.75   93.57±0.29   92.20±0.33  GraphMoRE SAGE   81.42±0.68   80.32±0.56   69.40±0.82   65.71±1.12   92.32±0.70   91.33±0.46   77.30±0.81   76.53±0.73   94.33±0.37   92.99±0.49  Table 3: Weighted-F1 and Micro-F1 (% ± standard deviation) of Node Classification on real-world graph datasets. The best results are indicated in   bold   and the runner-ups are underlined. OOM denotes Out-of-Memory.  Baselines.   We choose a variety of baselines including Eu- clidean methods and Riemannian methods. GCN (Kipf and Welling 2017), GAT (Veliˇ ckovi´ c et al. 2018), SAGE (Hamil- ton, Ying, and Leskovec 2017) are representatives of Eu- clidean GNNs. HNN (Ganea, B´ ecigneul, and Hofmann 2018), HGCN (Chami et al. 2019),   κ -GCN (Bachmann, B´ ecigneul, and Ganea 2020), LGCN (Zhang et al. 2021),  Q -GCN (Xiong et al. 2022), MofitRGC (Sun et al. 2024) are competitive Riemannian methods, where   Q -GCN and MofitRGC consider the topological heterogeneity.  Settings.   We set the number of layers to 2 for all meth- ods. For other model settings, we adopt the default values in the corresponding papers. All reported numbers are aver- aged over ten independent runs for fair comparison.  5.2   Performance Evaluation  Performance on Real-world Graphs.   We evaluate our method on link prediction and node classification tasks, and the results are summarized in Table 2 and Table 3. For the link prediction task, we use Fermi-Dirac decoder (Nickel and Kiela 2017) where the distance between two nodes in our method is calculated by Eq. (9) and (10). As observed, GraphMoRE achieves the best results on all datasets among 9 baselines, and compared with the runner-up method, we achieve gains of 2.01%, 1.94%, and 1.92% respectively in AUC score on Cora, Citeseer, and PubMed. For the node classification task, we use GCN, GAT, and SAGE as back- bone respectively. GraphMoRE achieves the best results on the vast majority of datasets.  Performance on Synthetic Graphs.   To further verify the ability to model mixed heterogeneous topologies, we evalu- ate our method on three different scale synthetic graphs with topological heterogeneity. We select the Riemannian meth- ods   Q -GCN and MotifRGC which are designed for topo- logical heterogeneity and the Euclidean method GCN, as baselines on the link prediction task. As shown in Figure 2, GraphMoRE significantly outperforms all baselines. In ad- dition, as the scale of datasets increases, the performance of all baselines declines to varying degrees, while Graph- MoRE consistently maintains excellent performance. This phenomenon is attributed to we analyze topological hetero- geneity from the perspective of local topology characteriza- tion, embedding each node into corresponding personalized embedding space rather than modeling all nodes globally, which decouples GraphMoRE from the scale of the dataset.  Ablation Study.   We conduct ablation studies with four variants on two downstream tasks to verify the effectiveness of each component in GraphMoRE. Here, we use GCN as the classifier backbone for the node classification task. 11759

Syn.Small   Syn.Middle   Syn.Large 80 85 90 95 100 AUC (%)  86.2   85.3 83.1 92.4 90.3 87.9 90.7 89.5   89.0 95.4   95.5   94.9  GCN    -GCN   MotifRGC   Ours Figure 2: Performance comparison on synthetic graphs with topological heterogeneity evaluated by AUC (%).  Method   Cora   Airport  AUC   W-F1   AUC   W-F1  GraphMoRE   97.91   80.51   97.53   91.75  GraphMoRE ( w/o distortion )   97.30   79.41   97.07   91.07 GraphMoRE ( w/o gating )   96.96   79.17   96.86   90.87 GraphMoRE ( w/o diverse )   94.34   79.69   94.69   90.46 GraphMoRE ( w/o align )   97.11   79.07   96.34   90.18 Table 4: Results of ablation study. AUC (%) for link predic- tion and Weighted-F1 (%) for node classification. •   GraphMoRE ( w/o distortion ) : we remove the embed- ding distortion   L D   from the optimization objective. •   GraphMoRE ( w/o gating ) : we replace the gating mech- anism with an MLP. •   GraphMoRE ( w/o diverse ) : we initialize all Riemannian experts with the same curvature. •   GraphMoRE ( w/o align ) : we ignore Eq. (9) and Eq. (10) and directly calculate the pairwise distance. The results are summarized in Table 4, which shows that missing any component of GraphMoRE leads to a degrada- tion of the performance. We analyze the results and find that: i) For GraphMoRE ( w/o distortion ) and GraphMoRE ( w/o gating ), there will be deviations in selecting the optimal em- bedding space for nodes due to the lack of embedding dis- tortion guidance or local topology characterization. ii) For GraphMoRE ( w/o diverse ), the performance degradation is most significant, which is because the lack of diver- sity among Riemannian experts limits the ability to flexibly construct personalized embedding spaces. iii) For Graph- MoRE ( w/o align ), directly calculating the pairwise distance between different embedding spaces leads to deviation.  Comparison of Embedding Distortion.   Embedding dis- tortion reflects the expressive ability for the graph structure, and lower embedding distortion indicates better preservation of the graph structure. We evaluate the average embedding distortion of our method and baselines designed for topolog- ical heterogeneity on the link prediction task and report the GraphMoRE   MotifRGC    -GCN  0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0  Figure 3: Visualization of distortion of different local topol- ogy structures in Cora. Closer to red, more distortion.  Method   Cora   Citeseer   Airport   PubMed   Photo GraphMoRE   0.22   0.32   0.55   0.21   0.59  MotifRGC   0.69   0.78   0.64   0.58   OOM  Q -GCN   0.80   0.91   0.70   0.75   0.78 Table   5:   Comparison   of   average   embedding   distortion. OOM denotes Out-of-Memory. results in Table 5. Obviously, GraphMoRE has the lowest average embedding distortion on all datasets, which bene- fits from we consider local topologies with different geomet- ric properties from the perspective of local topology charac- terization and construct personalized embedding spaces for them. Additionly, we visualize some examples from Cora in Figure 3, and it can be observed that GraphMoRE has rel- atively low distortion for mixed heterogeneous topologies, indicating that GraphMoRE has excellent expressive ability for topological heterogeneity. In contrast, methods that glob- ally embed all nodes cannot effectively capture different ge- ometric properties and process them differentially, resulting in higher embedding distortion.  6   Conclusion  In this paper, we propose a novel method GraphMoRE to address the problem of topological heterogeneity from the perspective of local topology characterization. We first pro- pose a topology-aware gating mechanism that selects the op- timal embedding space for nodes individually by estimating local geometric properties. Then we design diverse Rieman- nian experts to flexibly construct personalized mixed cur- vature spaces, effectively embedding the graph into a het- erogeneous manifold with varying curvatures at different points. Finally, we present a concise and effective alignment strategy to fairly measure pairwise distances between differ- ent embedding spaces. Extensive experiments have shown the advantages of GraphMoRE on topological heterogeneity. Future work will further explore the potential and broader impact of Riemannian MoE in enhancing the ability of graph foundation models to uniformly handle diverse graph data from a wide variety of types and domains. 11760

Acknowledgements  The corresponding author is Qingyun Sun. Authors of this paper are supported by the National Natural Science Foun- dation of China through grants No.62302023, No.62225202, and No.623B2010, the Beijing Natural Science Foundation QY24129, and the Fundamental Research Funds for the Central Universities. We owe sincere thanks to all authors for their valuable efforts and contributions.  References  Bachmann, G.; B´ ecigneul, G.; and Ganea, O. 2020. Constant curvature graph convolutional networks. In   ICML , 486–496. PMLR. Bronstein, M. M.; Bruna, J.; LeCun, Y.; Szlam, A.; and Van- dergheynst, P. 2017. Geometric deep learning: going beyond euclidean data.   IEEE Signal Processing Magazine , 34(4): 18–42. Chami, I.; Ying, Z.; R´ e, C.; and Leskovec, J. 2019. Hyper- bolic graph convolutional neural networks.   NeurIPS , 32. Cho, S.; Cho, S.; Park, S.; Lee, H.; Lee, H.; and Lee, M. 2023.   Curve Your Attention: Mixed-Curvature Trans- formers for Graph Representation Learning.   arXiv preprint arXiv:2309.04082 . Di Giovanni, F.; Luise, G.; and Bronstein, M. 2022. Hetero- geneous manifolds for curvature-aware graph embedding.  ICLR (GTRL Workshop) . Fu, X.; Gao, Y.; Wei, Y.; Sun, Q.; Peng, H.; Li, J.; and Li, X. 2024. Hyperbolic Geometric Latent Diffusion Model for Graph Generation.   ICML . Fu, X.; Li, J.; Wu, J.; Sun, Q.; Ji, C.; Wang, S.; Tan, J.; Peng, H.; and Philip, S. Y. 2021.   ACE-HGNN: Adaptive curva- ture exploration hyperbolic graph neural network. In   ICDM , 111–120. IEEE. Ganea, O.; B´ ecigneul, G.; and Hofmann, T. 2018.   Hyper- bolic neural networks.   NeurIPS , 31. Gu, A.; Sala, F.; Gunel, B.; and R´ e, C. 2019.   Learning mixed-curvature representations in product spaces. In   ICLR . Hamilton, W.; Ying, Z.; and Leskovec, J. 2017.   Inductive representation learning on large graphs.   NeurIPS , 30. Han, H.; Li, J.; Huang, W.; Tang, X.; Lu, H.; Luo, C.; Liu, H.; and Tang, J. 2024. Node-wise Filtering in Graph Neural Networks: A Mixture of Experts Approach.   arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.03464 . Han, Z.; Ma, Y.; Chen, P.; and Tresp, V. 2020.   Dyernie: Dynamic evolution of riemannian manifold embeddings for temporal knowledge graph completion.   EMNLP . Hou, Y.; Chen, X.; Zhu, H.; Liu, R.; Shi, B.; Liu, J.; Wu, J.; and Xu, K. 2024. NC2D: Novel Class Discovery for Node Classification. In   CIKM , 849–859. Hu, F.; Wang, L.; Liu, Q.; Wu, S.; Wang, L.; and Tan, T. 2022. GraphDIVE: Graph Classification by Mixture of Di- verse Experts. In   IJCAI , 2080–2086. Jacobs, R. A.; Jordan, M. I.; Nowlan, S. J.; and Hinton, G. E. 1991. Adaptive mixtures of local experts.   Neural computa- tion , 3(1): 79–87. Kim, S.; Lee, D.; Kang, S.; Lee, S.; and Yu, H. 2023. Learn- ing topology-specific experts for molecular property predic- tion. In   AAAI , volume 37, 8291–8299. Kipf, T. N.; and Welling, M. 2017. Semi-supervised classi- fication with graph convolutional networks.   ICLR . Liu, J.; Yang, C.; Lu, Z.; Chen, J.; Li, Y.; Zhang, M.; Bai, T.; Fang, Y.; Sun, L.; Yu, P. S.; et al. 2023a. Towards graph foundation models: A survey and beyond.   arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.11829 . Liu, Q.; Nickel, M.; and Kiela, D. 2019. Hyperbolic graph neural networks.   NeurIPS , 32. Liu, Z.; Yu, X.; Fang, Y.; and Zhang, X. 2023b.   Graph- prompt: Unifying pre-training and downstream tasks for graph neural networks. In   The web Conference , 417–428. Liu, Z.; Zhang, C.; Tian, Y.; Zhang, E.; Huang, C.; Ye, Y.; and Zhang, C. 2023c. Fair graph representation learning via diverse mixture-of-experts. In   The Web Conference , 28–38. Mao, H.; Chen, Z.; Tang, W.; Zhao, J.; Ma, Y.; Zhao, T.; Shah, N.; Galkin, M.; and Tang, J. 2024.   Position: Graph Foundation Models Are Already Here. In   ICML . Namata, G.; London, B.; Getoor, L.; Huang, B.; and Edu, U. 2012. Query-driven active surveying for collective clas- sification.   In   10th international workshop on mining and learning with graphs , volume 8, 1. Nickel, M.; and Kiela, D. 2017.   Poincar´ e embeddings for learning hierarchical representations.   NeurIPS , 30. Peng, W.; Varanka, T.; Mostafa, A.; Shi, H.; and Zhao, G. 2021.   Hyperbolic deep neural networks: A survey.   IEEE Transactions on pattern analysis and machine intelligence , 44(12): 10023–10044. Sen, P.; Namata, G.; Bilgic, M.; Getoor, L.; Galligher, B.; and Eliassi-Rad, T. 2008.   Collective classification in net- work data.   AI magazine , 29(3): 93–93. Shazeer, N.; Mirhoseini, A.; Maziarz, K.; Davis, A.; Le, Q.; Hinton, G.; and Dean, J. 2017.   Outrageously large neu- ral networks: The sparsely-gated mixture-of-experts layer.  ICLR . Shchur, O.; Mumme, M.; Bojchevski, A.; and G¨ unnemann, S. 2018. Pitfalls of graph neural network evaluation.   arXiv preprint arXiv:1811.05868 . Skopek, O.; Ganea, O.-E.; and B´ ecigneul, G. 2020. Mixed- curvature variational autoencoders.   ICLR . Sun, L.; Huang, Z.; Wang, Z.; Wang, F.; Peng, H.; and Philip, S. Y. 2024. Motif-aware riemannian graph neural network with generative-contrastive learning.   In   AAAI , volume 38, 9044–9052. Sun, L.; Zhang, Z.; Ye, J.; Peng, H.; Zhang, J.; Su, S.; and Philip, S. Y. 2022. A self-supervised mixed-curvature graph neural network. In   AAAI , volume 36, 4146–4155. Sun, X.; Cheng, H.; Li, J.; Liu, B.; and Guan, J. 2023. All in one: Multi-task prompting for graph neural networks. In  SIGKDD , 2120–2131. Veliˇ ckovi´ c, P.; Cucurull, G.; Casanova, A.; Romero, A.; Lio, P.; and Bengio, Y. 2018. Graph attention networks.   ICLR . 11761

Wang, H.; Jiang, Z.; You, Y.; Han, Y.; Liu, G.; Srinivasa, J.; Kompella, R.; Wang, Z.; et al. 2023. Graph mixture of ex- perts: Learning on large-scale graphs with explicit diversity modeling.   NeurIPS , 36. Wang, S.; Wei, X.; Nogueira dos Santos, C. N.; Wang, Z.; Nallapati, R.; Arnold, A.; Xiang, B.; Yu, P. S.; and Cruz, I. F. 2021.   Mixed-curvature multi-relational graph neural network for knowledge graph completion. In   The Web Con- ference , 1761–1771. Wu, S.; Cao, K.; Ribeiro, B.; Zou, J.; and Leskovec, J. 2024. GraphMETRO: Mitigating Complex Graph Distribu- tion Shifts via Mixture of Aligned Experts. In   The Thirty- eighth Annual Conference on Neural Information Process- ing Systems . Xiong, B.; Zhu, S.; Potyka, N.; Pan, S.; Zhou, C.; and Staab, S. 2022. Pseudo-riemannian graph convolutional networks.  NeurIPS , 35: 3488–3501. Xu, Z.; Wen, S.; Wang, J.; Liu, G.; Wang, L.; Yang, Z.; Ding, L.; Zhang, Y.; Zhang, D.; Xu, J.; et al. 2022. AMCAD: adap- tive mixed-curvature representation based advertisement re- trieval system. In   ICDE , 3439–3452. IEEE. Yang, M.; Verma, H.; Zhang, D. C.; Liu, J.; King, I.; and Ying, R. 2024. Hypformer: Exploring Efficient Hyperbolic Transformer Fully in Hyperbolic Space.   SIGKDD . Yang, M.; Zhou, M.; Li, Z.; Liu, J.; Pan, L.; Xiong, H.; and King, I. 2022.   Hyperbolic graph neural networks: A review of methods and applications.   arXiv preprint arXiv:2202.13852 . Yang, M.; Zhou, M.; Pan, L.; and King, I. 2023.   κ hgcn: Tree-likeness modeling via continuous and discrete curva- ture learning. In   SIGKDD , 2965–2977. Ying, C.; Cai, T.; Luo, S.; Zheng, S.; Ke, G.; He, D.; Shen, Y.; and Liu, T.-Y. 2021.   Do transformers really perform badly for graph representation?   NeurIPS , 34: 28877–28888. Zhang, Y.; Wang, X.; Shi, C.; Liu, N.; and Song, G. 2021. Lorentzian graph convolutional networks. In   The web Con- ference , 1249–1261. Zhao, H.; Chen, A.; Sun, X.; Cheng, H.; and Li, J. 2024. All in one and one for all: A simple yet effective method towards cross-domain graph pretraining. In   SIGKDD , 4443–4454. 11762